Approach: assignment 3 
Emma Rydholm


Task 1

Approach:
The approach taken to this problem is based on the fact that two consecutive alpha-carbon have approximately a distance of 3.8 Å 
from each other. Since it is known that all positions corresponds to an alpha-carbon atom and the number of atoms where low the approach 
was to create a linkage matrix, and start with one atom that only had one linkage, from there the atom that was closes to 3.8 Å apart was 
chosen as the next atom in the chain. The assumptions are that all alpha carbon have to be no more than UPPER_DIST ( = 3.95 Å) apart and no 
less than LOWER_DIST (= 3.65 Å) apart. 


Task 2 

Approach:
In task 2 there is not only alpha-carbon atoms included in the file. The approach taken is similar to the one in Task 1 but I am also 
taking the pseudo-valence angle into consideration. When looking for the next atom to add to the chain, the potential atoms are first 
checked if it is on a good distance and if so the angle between the three consecutive atom is within a specified range. Only then the atom 
could be considered to be a part of the alpha carbon chain. Since there could be several atoms that fullfilled these 2 requirements, the 
search_path function had to be called recursively, so that all potential path could be explored. Someimes the found path could be a loop, 
to avoid that the program got stuck in  such a loop, this was checked for right after appending each next atom. After all possible path had 
been explored the longest path was chosen as the main chain.

The assumptions that are made in this approach is that the distance between two consecutive alpha carbon atoms are lower than UPPER_DIST 
(= 3.95 Å) and higher than LOWER_DIST (= 3.65 Å). It is also assumed  that the pseudo valence  angle between 3 consecutive alpha carbon 
atoms are lower than UPPER_ANGLE (= 1.65 radians) and higher than LOWER_ANGLE (= 0.55 radians). These angles are approximated from 
meassuring the angles in the files that was used  in  assignment 2 "1cdh.pdb", "2csn.pdb","4GAF_B.pdb", "1HZH_H.pdb". Since these files
contained all alpha carbons.  
It  is also assumed that the best path is the longest path. 
